this is their earliest
pre-colonial shipwreck ever
discovered
it's from the European age of
discovery when Columbus Magellan
vasco de gama are going around
the world
this is the Esmeralda shipwreck
of vicente so draining
we have over two thousand eight
hundred individual artifacts
this copper alloy petal disc is
one of the most important
because it has the Portuguese
coat of arms and with the
personal influence of . manual
the first that he was the king
during vasco da gama's right
instantaneously I know we had
the right ship back
that was a fun discovery I I
with the guy that actually found
that
one . in particular the Indio
there's only one other one in
the world
they call it the ghost . of Don
Manuel the first
so to find something like that
is like you know this is like
Hollywood story you know
the belt is an equally amazing
discovery
this Bell was under this Boulder
for five hundred and ten years
it's in relatively good
condition
what really sort of fun about it
it matched the date that
vasco da gama found the sea
route to India and that was part
of the start of globalization
so it's not just pour 2 e's
history it's not just all money
history
this is really world history
that were discovery you find
online you
watching
read that
the values and not Simone this
is fine but down here is not
where in the crater of a
episodic really active volcano
so not the place that many
people go to have fun